.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH HOST-IDENTITY 1  "host-identity 1.0.0" "host-identity Manual"
.SH NAME
host\-identity \- Resolve a stable host UUID across platforms, clouds, and Kubernetes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhost\-identity\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-wrap\fR] [\fB\-\-sources\fR] [\fB\-\-network\fR] [\fB\-\-network\-timeout\-ms\fR] [\fB\-\-app\-id\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resolve a stable, collision\-resistant host UUID across platforms, container runtimes, cloud providers, and Kubernetes.
.PP
host\-identity walks a platform\-appropriate chain of identity sources (env override, /etc/machine\-id, DMI, cloud metadata, Kubernetes pod UID, …) and returns the first one that produces a credible identifier. Cloned\-VM sentinels, empty files, and systemd\*(Aqs literal `uninitialized` string are rejected rather than silently hashed into a shared ID.
.PP
Two environment variables pin identity explicitly when the automatic chain gets it wrong. HOST_IDENTITY_FILE names a file whose contents are used as the host identifier and takes precedence over every other source, including HOST_IDENTITY. HOST_IDENTITY supplies the identifier inline and is consulted next. Both work with the default chain and with explicit \-\-sources.
.PP
By default the chain uses only local sources. Pass \-\-network to pull in cloud\-metadata and Kubernetes probes, which require an HTTP client and a binary built with the `network` feature.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fI<FORMAT>\fR [default: plain]
Output format
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
plain
.IP \(bu 2
summary
.IP \(bu 2
json
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-wrap\fR \fI<WRAP>\fR [default: v5]
How the raw identifier returned by the winning source is turned into a UUID.

  v5           UUID v5 (SHA\-1) under this crate\*(Aqs private namespace (default).
               Deterministic: the same raw input always produces the same
               UUID. Rehashes the raw value even when the source already
               yields a UUID (DMI product_uuid, macOS IOPlatformUUID,
               Windows MachineGuid, SMBIOS), so two tools that share a raw
               source cannot emit colliding IDs unless they also share this
               crate\*(Aqs namespace.

  v3           UUID v3 (MD5) under the nil namespace. Use ONLY for interop
               with existing pipelines that already produced IDs this way —
               notably the legacy Go derivation `uuid.NewMD5(uuid.Nil, raw)`.
               Prefer v5 for new deployments; RFC 9562 recommends v5 over v3.

  passthrough  Parse the raw value directly as a UUID, with no hashing.
               Use when the source already yields a UUID string and you
               want that exact UUID to survive unchanged — e.g. to match
               an ID another tool on the same host already emits. Fails
               with an error when the raw value is not a parseable UUID
               (machine\-id, container IDs, Kubernetes pod UIDs all
               qualify; arbitrary strings from HOST_IDENTITY do not).

Pick v5 unless you have a concrete interop requirement.
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
v5
.IP \(bu 2
v3
.IP \(bu 2
passthrough
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-sources\fR \fI<SOURCES>\fR
Comma\-separated source identifiers to build a custom chain (see `host\-identity sources`). Combine with `\-\-network` to include cloud\-metadata sources in the chain
.TP
\fB\-\-network\fR
Enable cloud\-metadata and Kubernetes sources by supplying an HTTP transport. Without `\-\-sources` this adds them to the default chain; with `\-\-sources` it lets identifiers like `aws\-imds` resolve. Requires the binary to be built with the `network` feature
.TP
\fB\-\-network\-timeout\-ms\fR \fI<MS>\fR
Per\-request timeout, in milliseconds, for cloud\-metadata and Kubernetes HTTP probes. Only meaningful with `\-\-network`. Off\-cloud hosts never answer these endpoints, so this directly bounds the time spent waiting before falling through to the next source
.TP
\fB\-\-app\-id\fR \fI<APP_ID>\fR
Wrap every source in the chain with an HMAC\-SHA256 per\-app derivation keyed on the inner source value. When set, the resolver emits a per\-app UUID and the inner source\*(Aqs raw value never leaves the process.

APP_ID is a UTF\-8 byte string — reverse\-DNS identifiers like `com.example.telemetry` are idiomatic, but any stable bytes work. It is NOT secret: privacy comes from not leaking the inner raw value, not from APP_ID being hidden. The derived value is an identifier, not key material. Callers needing a non\-UTF\-8 APP_ID must use the library API.

Effect on the chain:
  * Every source is wrapped, including the HOST_IDENTITY env override,
    HOST_IDENTITY_FILE, cloud\-metadata, and Kubernetes sources.
  * Source labels in `\-\-format json` and `audit` output become
    `app\-specific:<inner>` (e.g. `app\-specific:machine\-id`).

Interaction with \-\-wrap:
  * v5 (default)     re\-hashes the AppSpecific UUID under this crate\*(Aqs
                     private namespace — per\-app\-unique AND
                     namespace\-separated from other tools that re\-hash
                     the same AppSpecific output.
  * passthrough      round\-trips the AppSpecific UUID unchanged — the
                     "byte\-exact AppSpecific" mode.
  * v3               works, but v5 is preferred.

Wrapping a source whose raw value is already public (cloud instance IDs, Kubernetes pod UIDs readable via the API server) adds no privacy — the input was not secret to begin with. Use this flag when you need to keep a local machine key (machine\-id, DMI, IoPlatformUuid, MachineGuid, hostid, SMBIOS) out of your telemetry.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
host\-identity\-resolve(1)
Resolve the host identity and print it (default)
.TP
host\-identity\-audit(1)
Walk every source without short\-circuiting and report each outcome
.TP
host\-identity\-sources(1)
List every source identifier compiled into this binary
.TP
host\-identity\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH EXTRA
EXAMPLES:
    Print the host UUID using the default local source chain:
        host\-identity

    Include cloud\-metadata and Kubernetes sources:
        host\-identity resolve \-\-network

    Build a custom chain from explicit source identifiers:
        host\-identity resolve \-\-sources env\-override,machine\-id,dmi

    Derive a per\-app UUID that doesn\*(Aqt leak the raw machine key:
        host\-identity resolve \-\-app\-id com.example.telemetry

    Emit machine\-readable output:
        host\-identity resolve \-\-format json
        host\-identity audit \-\-format json

    Pin identity via environment override:
        HOST_IDENTITY=11111111\-2222\-3333\-4444\-555555555555 host\-identity

    Pin identity via a file (takes precedence over HOST_IDENTITY):
        HOST_IDENTITY_FILE=/etc/host\-identity host\-identity

    List every source identifier compiled into this binary:
        host\-identity sources
.SH VERSION
v1.0.0
.SH AUTHORS
Elijah Zupancic <elijah@zupancic.name>
